README.md, before:

This is the gss-proxy project.

The goal is to have a GSS-API proxy, with standardizable protocol and a
(somewhat portable) reference client and server implementation.  There
are several motivations for this some of which are:

 - Kernel-mode GSS-API applications (CIFS, NFS, AFS, ...) need to be
   able to leave all complexity of GSS\_Init/Accept\_sec\_context() out of
   the kernel by upcalling to a daemon that does all the dirty work.

 - Isolation and privilege separation for user-mode applications.  For
   example: letting HTTP servers use but not see the keytabe entries for
   HTTP/* principals for accepting security contexts.

 - Possibly an ssh-agent-like SSH agent for GSS credentials -- a
   gss-agent.

gss-proxy uses libverto for dealing with event loops. Note that you need to
have at least one libverto event library installed (e.g. libverto-tevent).

We have a
[mailing list](https://lists.fedorahosted.org/archives/list/gss-proxy@lists.fedorahosted.org/)
and an IRC channel (#gssproxy on [Freenode](https://webchat.freenode.net)).

Commit message:

Add docs link to README.md
Signed-off-by: Robbie Harwood <rharwood@redhat.com>

README.md, after:

This is the gss-proxy project.

Documentation lives in the [docs folder of this
repository](https://pagure.io/gssproxy/blob/master/f/docs).

The goal is to have a GSS-API proxy, with standardizable protocol and a
(somewhat portable) reference client and server implementation.  There
are several motivations for this some of which are:

 - Kernel-mode GSS-API applications (CIFS, NFS, AFS, ...) need to be
   able to leave all complexity of GSS\_Init/Accept\_sec\_context() out of
   the kernel by upcalling to a daemon that does all the dirty work.

 - Isolation and privilege separation for user-mode applications.  For
   example: letting HTTP servers use but not see the keytabe entries for
   HTTP/* principals for accepting security contexts.

 - Possibly an ssh-agent-like SSH agent for GSS credentials -- a
   gss-agent.

gss-proxy uses libverto for dealing with event loops. Note that you need to
have at least one libverto event library installed (e.g. libverto-tevent).

We have a
[mailing list](https://lists.fedorahosted.org/archives/list/gss-proxy@lists.fedorahosted.org/)
and an IRC channel (#gssproxy on [Freenode](https://webchat.freenode.net)).
